# Question 3 - Scenario
**SmartandSafe Homecare – a new family care service for people with dementia.**
Many older adults living at home can begin to suffer from memory loss, dementia and illnesses such as Alzheimer’s disease. Dementia affects one in 11 people over their age of 65 in UK and an estimated 55 million people are living with dementia worldwide. As they get older a person’s dementia often deteriorates and they need increasing support to continue to have a happy and safe life in their own homes.There are many opportunities to support them with computer science, smart home technology, smartphones, Internet of Things sensors, Artificial Intelligence (AI) and well-designed software engineering solutions.
A software company is interested in developing a new software-as-a-service product called SmartandSafe Homecare to be sold to older adults and their families to monitor people living at home with dementia.

Their proposal is to install a network of motion sensors, smart devices and a smart hub in a person’s home and to gather data on movement, daily routines, conversations, and use of home devices such as the TV. This data would be streamed back to a database on a cloud platform and used for training AI that would detect changes in behaviour that may be signs of worsening dementia. A summary of the data including detected warning signs would be available to family members on a smartphone app. 
The software company plan to partner with a call centre specialising in supporting elderly people at home - if the system detects behaviour that is potentially unsafe it will send a message to the call centre system and a member of the call centre team will phone the older adult to check they are OK.The company think that there is a profitable market for this novel application by charging an installation fee for the equipment in the home and then a monthly charge for the service. Users will be able to review charts and graphs of their data and set their own thresholds for indicators of deteriorating conditions or unsafe behaviour. By involving families, the company think that they can help build a network of support around the older adult and involve the family in their care.
The initial plan is to start with motion sensors in each room linked to a smart hub and through that to their SmartandSafe application running on a cloud platform. The company are interested in the extent that they can use a much wider range of technologies to automatically monitor older adults in their own home and are aware that Google Home Hub and other smart home technologies can be used and that other organisations are developing similar products.
The company want to commission a requirements investigation and design brief. They want designs that are creative, ambitious but that also follow sound software engineering principles and address any legal, ethical and sociological issues.

The initial plan is to start with motion sensors in each room linked to a smart hub and through that to their SmartandSafe application running on a cloud platform. The company are interested in the extent that they can use a much wider range of technologies to automatically monitor older adults in their own home and are aware that Google Home Hub and other smart home technologies can be used and that other organisations are developing similar products.
The company want to commission a requirements investigation and design brief.They want designs that are creative, ambitious but that also follow sound software engineering principles and address any legal, ethical and sociological issues.