# Languages

- A language is a set of strings of symbols over an alphabet. 
- For example, the set of all strings over the alphabet $\{\texttt{a}, \texttt{b}, \texttt{c}, \ldots, \texttt{z}\}$ that contain an even number of a's and an odd number of b's is a language.

Languages can be classified based on the kinds of patterns that they contain. Some common types of languages include regular languages, context-free languages, and context-sensitive languages. Each of these types of languages can be recognised by a different type of machine, such as a finite state automaton, a pushdown automaton, or a linear-bounded automaton.
## Regular Languages

>[!info] Definition (Regular Language)
> A language is called a **regular language** if some deterministic finite automaton recognises it.

If there does not exists a finite automaton that recognises a given language $L$, then $L$ is said to be **non-regular**. 

The language of a machine $M$ will be denoted as $L(M)$. We say that a machine $M$ recognises a language $L$ if $L(M)=L$.
## Context Free Language

Languages can be classified based on the kinds of patterns that they contain. As we saw in the previous section the languages which can be recognised by deterministic finite state automata are [Languages](Languages.md). We define a class of languages which can be generated by context-free grammars.

> [!Info] Definition
> A language is called a **context-free language** (CFL) if some context-free grammar generates it.

If there does not exists a context-free grammar that generates a given language $L$, then $L$ is said to be **non-context-free**. 

The **language of a grammar**, denoted $L(G)$ (a slight corruption of notation), is $\{w \in \Sigma^* \mid S \stackrel{\ast}{\Rightarrow} w\}$.